<h1>Iris dataset analysis</h1>

<h1>Summary</h1>
<p>The <em>Iris</em> dataset is a classic dataset, commonly used in Machine Learning and Statistics, to illustrate examples relating to Correlation, Classification and Regression. </p>

<h1>Background</h1>
<p>The <em>Iris</em> dataset, otherwise known as <bf>Fisher's</bf> <em>Iris</em> dataset is a multivariate data set used and made famous by the British statistician and biologist Ronald Fisher in his 1936 paper
<em>The use of multiple meausurements in taxonomic problems</em> as an example of linear discriminant analysis. </p>

<h1>The Dataset</h1>
The dataset contains measurements of four features of iris flowers:
<ul>
    <li>Sepal length</li>
    <li>Sepal width</li>
    <li>Petal length</li>
    <li>Petal width</li>
</ul>

<p>The dataset also contains the species of iris for each reading. </p>

<h1>Contents of the repository</h1>
<ol>
    <li>pull_data_set.py: Python program to pull the dataset, using scikit-learn, and write it to a .csv file. </li>
    <li>analysis.py: Python program for analysis the iris dataset, containing functions:</li>
        <ol>
            <li>Generate a Statistical summary of the columns in the dataset. </li>
            <li>Generate histograms and scatter plots of the columns in the dataset. </li>
            <li>Generate a correlation analysis of the columns in the dataset.</li>
        </ol>
    <li>data: A directory containing the .csv file used for analysis. </li>
    <li>images: A directory containing two sub-directories:</li>
        <ol>
            <li>histograms: Contains png files of histograms generated by generate_histograms function in analysis.py</li>
            <li>scatter_plots: Contains png files of scatter plots generated by generate_scatter_plots function in analysis.py</li>
        </ol>
    <li>variables_summary.txt: Statistical summary of the data in the dataset, generated by the generate_summary function in analysis.py</li>
    <li>README.md: Exactly what it says on the tin, and exactly what you're reading now...</li>
</ol>